Battlecraft
Close spells.
Disguise Terrain. You can mask a doorway, create the illusion of a cave, hide a window, or make a flowering meadow appear to be a miasmal fen. The illusion is only visual, and it can only be applied to scenery, both indoor and outdoor. A character who knows his vision to be an illusion can interact with the true terrain, but he takes a Reason penalty on all such checks. You can only have one active disguised terrain at a time. If you leave the area, the spell fades after a few minutes.
Flick. Without preparation, you can exert approximately one pound of force per magic point. With a 10 Magic, then, you can exert 10 pounds of force for one or two seconds. This is enough to flick a lever, tip a water jug, rock a chandelier, etc. You can use this for environment tricks in social and physical combat and chases (usually this allows for a Magic roll vs. the Doom instead of a Strength roll, plus it allows for effects at range).
Ignore Pain. Pain is a distractor, and it can cause a character to take a penalty die on actions. This spell numbs the body, deadens most pain, and eliminates penalty dice caused by pain. Ignore pain persists indefinitely, but it counts as one of your bound spells.
This is a sought-after spell among spell smugglers.
Mine. You bind an exploding mine spell to an inanimate object. When the trigger condition is fulfilled, the object explodes, making a magic attack roll with your Magic die vs. the targets' Magic dice, doing 1 point of damage for every two magic levels you have. The trigger condition can be simple ("Someone touches the mine") or complicated, ("Anyone removing the ewer from the sanctum sanctorum, unless within the half-hour the ewer is filled with virgin's blood, and then only on the eves of St. Vartan, St. Jhess, or St. Dominic").The mine targets the three closest people to the object and the object itself. You should flavor your mine appropriately: lightning, shrapnel, acid, etc. A mine counts as one of your trapped spells.
Repair. You can repair simple objects with no interior structure and no complicated moving parts.
This includes curtain walls, swords, gate doors, anchor chains, and breastplates, for example, but it excludes black powder weapons, drawbridges, mills, wagons, zeppelins, and musical instruments. When you repair an item, you add 2 Quality to it, but it cannot exceed its original value. You can only repair a particular item once per scene (or day). For more complicated items, someone with engineering skill can do the work necessary.
Sculpt. You can sculpt small, simple objects with no interior structure and a very straightforward exterior, such as a shovel, a cup, or a rope. The raw materials to make the item must be present. The item is spellbound and counts as one of your trapped spells until you dismiss it.
Signal. You can send your characteristic signal across a battlefield-sized area. Your signal might be a personal seal waving, a streak of your color against the sky, a flare, or a conjured signal fire. The signal conveys no other information; only that the signal has been given. You must have pre-arranged context with your receiver if you wish to communicate more than this.
Strengthen (M). You can add 2 points of Quality to any fixed object. Field marshals often exploit this ability to strengthen their fortifications. You cannot strengthen something whose Quality exceeds your magic levels. The strengthened object is strengthened indefinitely, but it counts as one of your trapped spells.
Multiple strengthens do not stack.
Wall of Force (M). See the combat spell gloss above. You can have one Wall of Force standing at a time. It is Quality 6, so opponents would have to roll a 6 to hit it and cause 6 points of damage before bringing it down. If your wall is destroyed, you cannot cast another one this scene (or day). You can dismiss your wall at will, or as a Trick in combat.
High spells.
Construct. You can construct any building with a Quality up to half your Magic levels. The building lasts for a scene (or a day), and then disintegrates into non-magical sawdust and rubble. If you cast a second consecutive Construct, the original building collapses before the second one springs into place. Creatures caught in the area of a new construction are shoved aside to an adjoining area, while the existing scenery is held suspended elsewhere, returning unharmed upon the spell's completion.
Crafted golem. You can create any of the crafted golems (p. 185). The Wealth Level costs apply in full. A crafted golem counts as your bound high spell until it is destroyed, which you can do voluntarily, leaving behind an inanimate shell.
Harden. You raise one troop's defense die size by one for all formations and maneuvers. The bonus lasts for one battle. This only applies to troops that wear armor (and not, for example, magical beasts, siege engines, or caster units).
New terrain. This spell requires three consecutive rounds of casting. When you are done, your area is a completely different area. You can create terrain in your new area as you wish; see pp. 29 and 50 for information on how terrain can affect combat and mass combat. Once cast, it lasts indefinitely, but it counts as your trapped high spell (until you dismiss it).
Recovery. This spell causes all troops after a battle to recover (p. 52) without the need to roll.
Rescue. You grant one troop the ability to retreat off the battle map in a single move. The troop can move through enemy units. This spell does not grant any other movement powers, however, so the troop still cannot cross a chasm, leap over a burning pitchline, or swim in a raging current. This magic can only be safely used for a retreat; if used as part of some greater scheme, a crisis surge is the normal result.
Sharpen.You raise one troop's attack die size by one for all formations and maneuvers. The bonus lasts for one battle. This only applies to troops that wield edged or piercing weapons (and not, for example, magical beasts, siege engines, or caster units).
Weeping wounds. The commanding organization of the losing side in a battle takes one additional point of characteristic damage when this spell is cast within an hour of the battle's conclusion. Even more significantly, the losing side cannot recover any decimated troops (p. 52).

Death Lore
Close spells.
Animate Corpse. After a minute of your chanting, one corpse shudders to its feet like a puppet whose strings have been lifted. As long as you concentrate on it, do not let it leave your sight, and take no actions more strenuous than strolling, it is animated as a humanoid zombie under your control. At the end of ten minutes' control, the corpse's ligature fails and it collapses, no longer fit for animation by any magic or alchemy short of a wild surge.
Chill. You can lower the ambient temperature in your area by approximately 15 degrees Celsius.
This spell endures for a scene (or a day) or until you cast it again in another area.
Death Scene. Placing your hand on a corpse of a person who has died no more days ago than you have magic levels, you can learn one thing about the corpse per round or minute. If you have enough time, you can learn or experience: • The corpse's name.
• Where the corpse lived.
• The corpse's former Inspirations at time of death.
• If the corpse was or is spellbound.
Death Touch (M). Plants and unintelligent creatures (including pets, but not familiars) massing up to 1 pound/magic level die at your touch - if you wish.
Disrupt Unead. Placing a dollop of null jelly (p. 144) under the tongue of an undead creature and intoning this spell lights a shining radiance within the undead, a radiance that quickly intensifies, heating and cracking the effulgent undead's skin and likely killing the creature. Roll your Magic score with your Reason score as a bonus die against the undead's Magic roll to succeed in destroying it. If you attempt this in combat, three consecutive tricks are required: the first and quite difficult (Doom + 5 or more) trick is to place the null jelly, the second two tricks require you or an ally 243 to hold the null jelly trapped in the undead's mouth while you cast the disruption. More often, an undead is captured, strapped down, and disrupted - among semi-intelligent undead hordes, one or two disruptions a week improve discipline measurably.
Dustform (M). You can only do this for one minute per scene (or day), and the minute cannot be broken down into six seconds here, five seconds there, and forty-nine seconds after supper. It adds no new forms of movement, so you cannot fly, float, drift, levitate, etc. You can squeeze through extremely narrow spaces, pour yourself through tiny holes, even climb up a squirrel-sized chimney, but you must be contiguous at all times and occupy your full volume at all times.
Feign Death. You can stop the metabolism of one willing creature up to human size (and larger if you are a master of the style). The faker has no need to eat or breathe, and his temperature drops to the ambient.
He cannot move, but he or the caster can end the spell at any time. At a casual glance or even a reasonable examination, the faker appears dead. An extremely thorough and determined investigation, however, grants anyone so persisting a Reason or Magic roll against the caster's Magic score (not a roll) to determine the faker's true status.
Grave portent. You see a scratch through all creatures whose Mood + Body total is less than 5, as if that creature had been painted in portrait and someone has torn the canvas.
Moaning Decay. All corpses in the area, including those long buried in graves, moan and decay into putrescence. The shrieking moans and the noxious fumes of decay persist over the period of an hour.
Anyone in the area takes a Heart penalty die on all checks during this hour. There must be a reasonable number of corpses in the area for this spell to succeed.
The GM judges what is reasonable; a small sleeping chamber above the mill requires only a single corpse, while the bazaar at the city's center would require at least 20 corpses.
Silence of the Grave. When you place silence of the grave upon a willing target, including yourself, he can cast spells in complete silence. Other noises he generates are as loud as normal.
High spells.
Hush. You steal the voices of every person living in an area the size of a small town. The voices are placed in a puzzle box, cameo locket, or corked bottle.
Only spellbound creatures have a chance to resist by rolling their Magic against yours. The town silence continues as long as you maintain the box, locket, or bottle, which counts as your trapped high spell. If the voice vessel is broken, all voices are returned and cannot be stolen again for one year.
Longevity. This spell wards off old age. The recipient ages only one year, effectively, over the next 1d6 years. Any wild surge caused by this spell results in a crisis surge. These crisis surges tend to leave either the recipient or the caster deformed or deranged.
This has caused the spell to develop an odious reputation, albeit an odious reputation that diminishes its popularity not a whit.
Raise Undead. You create a skeleton, zombie, human raptor cross-stitch zombie, or some other unintelligent undead, depending on the corpse available and your intent. If your Magic roll beats the Doom, the unintelligent undead serves under your control (with the intelligence of a half-trained hound) until it is destroyed. If you fail the roll, the mindless creature attacks. If you have two or more apprentices, you can each raise one undead per day, forming a mass combat troop in a few weeks or even less time, depending on the number of apprentices you have to join you in your casting.
Repulse Death. When this spell is cast, walls rattle in their foundations like children shaking in anger, and clouds buck and shudder in the sky. This spell thwarts Death, just as a high Inspiration thwarts Death. The spell lies like a mantle on the recipient for an indefinite time, and during this time it counts as your one bound High spell (or your one High spell for the day; see p. 37). When the recipient would die of spent. Instead of dying, the recipient escapes. The GM and the player, if any, narrate together how the Repulse Death recipient escaped from near-certain death.
Turn. You become a vampire or lich. This is an irreversible process. You gain the Strength and Quickness of the undead in question. You also gain the resistances (cold, poison, disease), the special attacks (drain, captivate, soul rip, command) and the vulnerabilities (sunlight, stakes, phylactery, craving, corrupted or ruined Inspirations and Heart). Histories and other characteristics do not change. See the monster entries for more detail.
The Dead Walk. The dead of centuries claw to the surface and stalk the streets of their former homes.
This spell can only be cast at night. Uncontrolled, the zombies act as two zombie legions (p. 173) if met by troop- or brigade-level resistance. In such a case, resolve the battle normally using the mass combat rule.
If the zombies win the battle, or if there is no mass resistance, then every organization in the region must roll Force against your Magic or lose 1 Scope. Additionally, 10% of the regions population is lost. PCs abroad in the night when the dead walk can expect to find undead in varying densities in each new area they enter, according to the following table.
1-4: 1d4 Human zombies.
5-8: 2d4 Human zombies and 1 undead giant.
9-12: 1d4 Human zombies and 1d4 twitchers.
13-15: 1d4 undead giants.
16-17: 1d4 human zombies, 1d4 twitchers, and 1d4 undead giants.
18-19: 2d20 human zombies and 2d20 twitchers.
20: 3d4 human zombies, 1d4 undead giants, and 1 lich.

Dramba
Close spells.
Brick Dust Line. You pour out a line of brick dust while invoking the loa. Whenever a creature matching the conditions you set crosses the brick dust line, you are aware of it (and waken if asleep). The conditions you set may be broad or narrow, general or specific, anything from "all creatures" to "that seradynn with the red horns I met at the AllBelow."
Burn Doll. You can, of course, use this spell out of combat to purify a target, provided it is cast quickly enough.
Loa Walk. You spend time walking with the loa, listening to their whispers and drumbeats, moving in their abstruse rhythms. You can converse with the loa, who may or may not be willing to answer questions.
The GM should develop loa spirits as NPCs like any other, and you may run a social scene or quick social combat with the loa in order to coax them to cooperate.
The loa spirits generally have access to regions up to one dozen miles around the caster, and they can appear to any spellbound creature visually, but not audibly, within that range. If you are a houngan, that is, a master of the dramba style, you can ask the loa to bring you a material item through the spirit realm.
In the next scene (or the next day), if the loa assents to you request, it returns with the mundane object you asked it to fetch. Secrets, items belonging to a person, and extraordinary objects cannot be retrieved by loa via this spell.
Hex. The target's dice cannot explode. You must maintain a doll in effigy of the target, and this doll counts as one of your trapped spells. You must make an opposed Magic check when first casting this spell. If the target resists, you cannot target him or her again in the scene (or in the week). If the target fails, the spell lasts until dispelled, you choose to end it, or the doll is destroyed.
Hex land (M). Choose one area of the game world. You build a model of it using bricks, chicken bones, and blonde human hair. In this area, apply one effect of your choice from the following list. The choice cannot change subsequently. The model and its hexed land count as one of your trapped spells. You cannot have more than one hexed land at a time.
• No magic dice (for the Magic characteristic, or attack, or defense) explode.
• One characteristic (Str, Qck, Mgc, etc.) is always one die size smaller, for everyone, than it is elsewhere.
• Mood cannot be recovered here.
• Anyone with a particular Inspiration (your choice: Fear, Love, Hope, Vengeance, etc.) has her Mood and maximum Mood reduced by 2 here.
• Everyone entering the area sees and hears a brief, twisted version of their comrades and surroundings, causing 1 Mood damage.
Patch. The loa flow from your hands and heal your target for 1 Body, as long as the damage occurred within the last minute. This spell is only effective once per injured state. That is, when a character is wounded and then receives this spell, he cannot again benefit from this spell until after he has healed to maximum Body.
Salve doll. You can of course use this spell out of combat, too, as long as it is applied quickly enough to the injury.
Weal bone. After dedicating a doll in effigy of the target, you chant over the doll and a prepared chicken bone for thirteen minutes. Luck swirls and funnels. When the recipient breaks the bone, which may be weeks later, he gains a bonus die equal to your Magic die on his next roll. A weal bone counts as one of your trapped spells.
High spells.
Brick dust hedge. A brick dust line prevents a target from crossing. You must name the target and maintain a doll in its likeness. The target gains a Magic roll, opposed by your Magic roll, when the spell is first cast. If the target wins, the spell is ineffective. If you win, then the target cannot step over the brick dust line. It is possible - notoriously so, in fact - to make the brick dust hedge a circle, pointing inward, so that a creature is imprisoned in the brick dust circle.
Heap loa salve. This spell does one of the following: • Removes one alchemical, magic, disease, or poison effect from the target. Magic effects roll their caster's Magic die against yours to resist.
• Heals up to 2 Body.
• Heals up to 2 points of characteristic damage.
There is no time limit as there is for Patch, above, for example. The high spell is effective wether the injury occurred a minute ago or a year ago. The heap loa salve spell, however, still cannot heal more than once per injured state (as Patch, above).
House curse. After dipping a doll in arsenic and wine, you set it ablaze, cursing the doll's likeness.
The most widely known dramba curse causes the victim to grow thinner day by day while catching horrifying glimpses of murder and beasts of rapine, always just out of the corner of the eye, slipping away when focused on directly - but you can generate your own curse symptoms as you wish. The curse wears down the target's maximum Mood cumulatively, 1 point per scene (or day) and, if you wish, it also wears down one other characteristic of your choice, cumulatively, also by 1 in every scene. The curse continues until the target is disabled or dead, until you break the spell, or until the ashes of the doll used to cast the spell are purified (usually with a salve doll or heap loa salve spell). The curse attacks with your Magic die; if the target wins the initial roll, the curse is resisted. A curse that is not resisted attacks anew each day. If the target fails the initial roll but wins a subsequent roll, he is still cursed but does not take damage in that scene (or day). If the target of the curse has wronged you, then should you wish it, your curse outlasts the target's (and your) death, moving on to plague his heir or another person in his house, and from there to another person, one at a time without mercy, until the house is no more.
Magic jar. After invoking the loa of theft and binding, you steal someone's soul and trap it in a jar.
The target can make a Magic roll against yours to resist; success means that he cannot again this season be targeted by your magic jar. The remaining husk of a person will, on your successful Charisma vs. Doom roll, follow your simple commands. You make the Cha roll once per scene; if you fail it, you cannot establish control this scene. You can choose to release the mind from the jar at any time; if the jar shatters, the mind within is restored to its body. The jar and its trapped soul count as your bound high spell.
Transposition. You cause two people to switch bodies. One morning, the chief of guards for the Marquis wakes up to find himself in a scrawny body, tied to a rack in the bowels of the city, while an assassin wakes up in the chief's body, assumes the chief's role for the day, and moves in for the kill. The transposed mind retains its Magic, Heart, Reason, and Charisma dice, along with its Mood, Histories, fighting styles, and magic styles. The bodies keep their respective Strength, Quickness, Body, and Reputation scores.
One of the people that switch can be you. This switch initially counts as your bound high spell, but if it is still in place after a fortnight, it no longer counts as your bound high spell.

Druidic
Close spells.
Blight or thrive. You cause a farm's yield to increase or decrease one wealth level. You must cast this spell at least one month before harvest, and the crop counts as one of your trapped spells until it is sold.
Cleanse or sour. You freshen spoiled food, and you clean dirty water. Alternatively, you sour milk and wine, foul water, or rot food. When you cast this on a poison or on a creature that has been poisoned, roll your Magic die. If you equal or exceed the Quality of the poison, you have neutralized the poison.
You may only attempt to neutralize a poison once per poisoning. That is, if you fail to neutralize a poison on the first roll, no subsequent cleansing spell of yours will neutralize the poison.
Cages of life (M). In a ritual that lasts from noon to noon, you can bleed one creature to give life to another creature of the same species. Both victim and beneficiary must be held in wicker frames suspended over a double crescent of mistletoe, part of which is burned every hour. Once every four hours, the victim suffers two Body damage and the beneficiary gains one Body. While the ritual proceeds, each pair of cages counts as one trapped spell.
Flame. You can cause flames the size of a camp fire to leap into existence. If there is dry fuel, the flames light it, but otherwise the flames fade in a flash.
Without wood or oil or something similar to light, then, this spell is not suitable for use as a substitute torch.
Fortify or debilitate. You increase or decrease the Quality of a single dose of poison by 1 (or 2 if you are a master of the style). This Quality increase lasts indefinitely, but the poison counts as one of your bound spells.
Libation. With this spell, you can multiply or extend other objects or effects. The libation is fresh blood, usually from a sacrifice, but in any case the blood must be from a wound that causes at least 2 Body damage. You mix the blood with mistletoe in a silver bowl, and then you pour it out onto the object or area that you want to bless. Any mundane, timelimited object or effect is doubled. For example, 6 fish become 12, 7 loaves become 14, an hourglass requires two hours to pour through its sand.
Rust and decay. You accelerate the aging process of any item fashioned primarily of metal or wood.
If your Magic roll equals or exceeds the Quality of the item, you decrease its Quality by 1. There is a limit to this forced aging. You cannot make an item age this way more than once per season. If you are a master, then this spell can affect buildings, vehicles, and other large-scale objects.
Seed. Given soil, you cause a seed to sprout and grow to a fully ripened plant in a matter of minutes.
This counts as one of your trapped spells; if you release the spell, the plant withers and dies.
Speak with animals. You can speak with animals as if they were NPCs of very low intelligence.
While a full social scene may be neither necessary nor possible (rare is the prolix badger), you do need to roll at least one check (Charisma vs. Doom unless your GM specifies otherwise) to obtain useful information.
High Spells.
Disaster. This spell can only be cast from a significant geographic point in the landscape: a ring of standing stones, the highest peak in the range, the deepest cavern below the city, or somewhere similarly significant. It also requires a WL 14 quantity of mistletoe, gold dust, and sacrificial beasts. After a night of casting, you wreak disaster upon the region at the rising of the sun. You can cause any of the following disasters (p. 61): creeping doom, earthquake, fire, flood, rain of rocks, rain of frogs, faces like pillars of light, soulhail. The disaster strikes the region that you are in.
Eclipse. The sun or the moon darkens to a void within a minute, and darkness prevails for a number of minutes equal to your magic levels. Furthermore, during the eclipse, you can choose to increase or decrease the Doom by up to 4 (minimum 1).
Fertility. A druid can ensure a pregnancy within a season with a Magic roll against the Doom.
Only one attempt per mother per season is possible.
Flocks. Birds dive and attack throughout the region. For a number of days equal to your magic score, anyone going out of doors draws four attacks per minute, each attack a d4 for 1 point of damage.
Plague. This prevents everyone in the region from using Mood or Inspiration when resisting a disease.
It counts as your bound high spell.
Sacred ground. The blood of multiple sacrifices consecrates a grove, a ring of standing stones, or a temple, dedicating the area to one of your Inspirations.
The Inspiration must have a value of 4 or more. Anyone, including you, who shares that Inspiration gains one die size to his Magic and Heart rolls when on the sacred ground. This spell may also be cast in reverse to defile previously consecrated ground. The casting must take place on the grounds in question. The casting requires a number of days equal to the Doom and ten times that number of sacrifices.
Season of Life. Any human or troll born during this season in your region gains a +2 to his maximum Mood.
Wild fertility or famine. A druid can increase or decrease the Wealth Level of the region's agricultural sector by 1.

Elemental Maelstrom
Close spells.
Airy water. As you stand on the shore or edge of a large body of water, you gesture, and the water begins to bubble. Soon gobs of air are mixed into the water. You and all other air-breathers can breathe this air. The airy water extends in a 10-foot sphere around you, and it lasts until you exit the body of water. When fighting in airy water, combatants take a Strength penalty die with every nonmagical attack and defense roll, and nonmagical ranged attacks are impossible.
Flame. You can cause flames the size of a camp fire to leap into existence. If there is dry fuel, the flames light it, but otherwise the flames fade in a flash.
Without wood or oil or something similar to light, then, this spell is not suitable for use as a substitute torch.
Fog. Fog rolls in and obscures one area. Perception checks in the fog are at a one die size penalty.
Characters not in the fog's area take a two die size penalty on perception checks and ranged attacks for each area between them and the fog.
Gust of wind. At your gesture, a strong gust of wind (50 kph) blows from you to the edge of the area.
Ice rime. At the end of your incantation (four consecutive Tricks in combat), a coating of ice crystallizes on all exposed surfaces. In the next round, anyone carrying an item must make a Quickness or Strength (her choice) roll against your Magic roll or drop the item. Until the ice melts, anyone moving or fighting in the area must make a Quickness check against the Doom to avoid slipping and falling (rebalancing if in combat).
Warmth. You can keep a person warm even if he wears nothing but a loincloth on the peak of Koshtra Indege. The protection lasts indefinitely, but each person so treated counts as one of your bound spells.
Weather burst. A weather burst causes a brief but strong outburst of weather. A deluge on a sunny day and a rainbow at an overcast wedding are two examples of what is possible. The weather outburst lasts for a minute, and then all returns to normal.
Weather witching. A weather witching changes the weather by one step: a light rain becomes a heavy rain; a drizzle becomes a light rain; a sunny day becomes a brilliant, hot day; a gale becomes a strong wind; and so forth. You can cast this spell once per weather system; that is, you cannot cast this spell a second time until the weather changes naturally.
Whispers on the Wind. You can whisper so that the winds carry your words to anyone within sight.
High spells.
Call weather. You can change the weather.
The new weather can be any weather possible for the region for the year. After changing the weather once, you must let the new weather pattern run its natural course before casting this spell again.
Calm. Throughout the maritime region where you cast this spell, winds do not blow. Sail-powered ships cannot move. This quells any winds that were in the area, even storm winds, although other storm effects such as lightning, rain, or snow continue. The calm endures for a day.
Disaster. After an hour of casting, you wreak a disaster on your region. You can cause an earthquake, flood, blizzard, tornado, avalanche, or hurricane (p.
61).
Living fire, living air, etc. Magic animates an element (p. 189). The living elemental is twice as tall as a man and proportionately thick. The elemental obeys you as long as you make a Reason check against the elemental's Charisma; if you fail, the elemental ceases to live. The spell lasts for only one scene.
Travelling mercies. Your spell follows the caravan, armada, craft or individual that you specify. The attendant fair weather increases the large-scale speed of travel by 125%. This counts as a bound High Spell.
Storm blessing or storm curse. By calling an intense storm at the wrong time, or calming it at the right time, a maelstrom mage can increase or decrease the Wealth Level of the region's agricultural sector by 1.
Vortex. An arcane twister roars through the region along a path you specify up to half a mlie long.
Anything alive and touched by the vortex is transported elsewhere. Creatures aware of the vortex and attempting to avoid it can make a chase roll against the Doom (or, if appropriate to the game, run a Chase scene against the vortex). Determine the destination of those caught in the vortex by rolling percentile dice.
1-10: Bottom of nearest major body of water.
11-20: Bottom of the nearest dungeon, prison, or school.
21-35: Nearest enemy's courtyard, orchard, lists, peristyle, docks, or similar .
35-50: Heart of nearest magical beast's lair.
51-65: Nearest active battleground.
66-75: Altar room of a Low God cult in a land at least 3 days journey from here.
76-80: Same spot, one week in the future.
81-85: Inside a sarcophagus in a royal tomb.
86-90: Top of the canopy in a royal bedchamber.
91-95: Ally's home.
96-00: Home.

Hearts
Close spells.
Apathy. Weak hearts lack will. Against a creature who is not spellbound and has a Heart of 5 or less, this spell succeeds unless you roll a 1 on your Magic roll. Against other targets, it fails. When it succeeds, the target fails to act when he otherwise would. You convince the target to not sound an alarm, to refuse to fight, to ignore the crime he has just noticed. This spell can be successful once per target per scene (or day).
Boost. Once per scene (or day) per person, you can boost an ally's Mood by two with this spell. In combat, this spell requires two consecutive Tricks.
Dead memory. You double the rate at which the spell recipient can voluntarily lose Inspiration points. This is especially popular as a trapped spell sold to a broken-hearted lover.
Despair. Cast this upon a person at 0 Mood. He must then make a Heart roll against the Doom before he can regain any Mood. He can attempt one roll per scene (or day). While so ensorcelled, the target counts as one of your trapped spells.
Emotioal theme (M). You subtly alter the emotional theme of a location. Shadows deepen, or gargoyles leer, or the sun comes out, or the fire blazes warmer - depending on the theme you add. For the remainder of the scene or until you leave the location, you can add a theme, just as a building's architecture and design can add a theme (p. 155). You can only use one theme per scene (or day).
Inspiration sympathy. You become aware of anyone in sight who shares one of your Inspirations.
The Inspiration must match closely. Merely sharing "Ambition" is not enough, nor is "Ambition: be successful." "Ambition: win the Unicorn Downs gauntlet race" is specific enough.
Masquerade. You mask your heart. Roll your Magic die as a bonus die when resisting any attempt to read your emotions or discover your Inspirations or intentions. This spell lasts indefinitely but counts as one of your trapped spells while in effect.
Read Inspiration. If the target used an Inspiration in this scene, you can read the Inspiration's type (anger, desire, fear, love, vengeance, etc.) but not its focus.
Read Mood. You can tell if a person is close to maximum Mood, half Mood, or in danger of despair (zero Mood).
Serenity (M). This spell is highly sought after on the black market. A person with serenity feels a preternatural happiness and calm. Although her Mood can decrease, she feels no associated pain or trauma.
She does not roll any Heart penalty dice or take any other penalties associated with losing Mood, being insulted, facing Fears, or going against a region's culture. She cannot use any Inspiration which involves violent, angry feelings, and she cannot use any Inspiration at all in combat or mass combat.
Trollhearts. Two people who have each other as Inspirations can use this spell to know what the other is feeling at any distance, as long as they are in the same region. Communication is impossible; only vague feelings come through the link: fear, contentment, worry, and anger, for instance. No other information, including the object or cause of the emotion, is shared. A bonded couple counts as one of the Troll hearts-casting wizard's trapped spells.
High spells.
Anger. Grudges break to mutiny on all sides.
Any attempt to parley instead of fight, to make peace instead of war, to talk down instead of ratchet up must beat the Doom in addition to any opposed roll. This spell must be renewed each scene (or day).
Devotion. The members of an organization redouble their efforts on its behalf. The organization gains 2 Efficiency and 1 to one other characteristic.
It persists indefinitely, but while in effect, this spell counts as your trapped High spell.
Forsaken Hearts. You sap the will from everyone in the region. Friends and foes alike take a -1 penalty to their Heart scores unless they succeed in a Magic roll against the Doom. Each person attempts the roll once per day. The spell persists for one month or until you cast it in a different region.
Fountainhead. As Forsaken Hearts, but friends and foes gain a +1 bonus to their Heart scores.
Guilt. Anyone in the region whose Inspirations run counter to the region's culture reduces his maximum Mood by 2, rather than 1, for each such Inspiration.
This spell must be renewed each scene (or day).
Hardened Heart. A person with a hardened heart rolls your Magic die as a bonus die whenever he is resisting an attack that would cause Mood or Inspiration damage. The Hardened Heart reduces the character's maximum Mood to 2. Hardening a heart this way counts as your bound High spell.
Intimations. Whispers inflame the heart and the temper, in one meeting of the eyes there are a thousand declarations of love. The bonds and feuds amongst people become stronger. Any Inspiration involving another person or group of people is increased by one.
This allows people to exceed their normal maximum Inspiration capacity. The spell persists for one month or until you cast it in a different region.
Tranquility. The aura of peace and calm in the region is so overpowering that anyone engaging in violence must make a Heart check against the Doom or suffer 1 Mood damage.This spell persists for one month or until you cast it in a different region.
Zeal. All units in a legion gain one Spirit for the battle that must already be occurring when you cast this spell.

Language of Stars
Close spells.
Compelling Stars. In the Language of Stars, you intone one short command. The target can refuse, but in that case he takes one point of Mood damage if his Reason roll does not beat your Magic roll. The command must be clear and present, and it must be completable within one round. "Eat the dashberry cake" and "Lock the door" work; "Craft a window for St. Jhess's cathedral" does not. This spell requires two consecutive Tricks in combat (the first is to invoke the stars, the second to utter the command). It can only be used in a chase if the target is close enough to hear your shouted command after the second round. Compelling Stars cannot affect the same person more than once per scene.
Encrypt. With a wave of your hand, writing transforms into ciphers unreadable by any who are not at least apprentices in the Language of Stars spell school. You can decrypt the text with another wave of your hand. Spellbound texts require you to make a Magic roll against the Doom.
Fade. Memories fade. The target loses two points from one history item if she fails an opposed Magic roll. The points return after the scene (or day).
Gift of the Stars. Once per person, usually upon first meeting, you have a vision of one random moment from your new acquaintance's history. This spell could place a high demand on a GM's improvisation skill, but GMs should understand that the random moment need have no bearing on anything else of relevance to the campaign. (To GMs: In practice, in my experience, this spell can be wondrous fun. Toss something out there, let the players attempt to exploit it or torture it into relevance, and once they've done so, run with the result. Some great moments can come from random visions!) Here is a brief sample of random Gifts of the Stars.
History locus. At a touch, you learn the last seven spells and the last seven Inspirations used in an area.
Imminence. This spell grants minor foresight and clairvoyance against non-spellbouind creatures.
When someone knocks at the door, you can see who is on the other side a moment before you open it. When you are chasing someone through the Arredenthian Vaults, you know what lurks ahead the instant before you round the corner. Your visions never extend more than a second or two into the future. In addition to the obvious perks, Imminence allows you to roll your Magic die as a bonus die when making a chase roll, but you cannot then do anything other than Run or go Under Control this round.
Listen to the Same Stars. After listening to the stars for a night, you learn the name of the most powerful organization in the region and have a vision of one of the organization's recent actions.
Magic Mouth. You place a mouth, no more than half a meter square, in any location: a wall, the inside of a variorum cover, hanging in the air in a cave entrance, etc. The mouth is invisible until a trigger condition is met. Then, the mouth appears and shouts, whispers, or speaks up to twenty-three words of your choice, in any language you know (including the Language of the Stars, which can only be understood by fellow Speakers and Listeners). The trigger condition can be as complex or as simple as you like. After speaking, the mouth returns to its dormant state until the next time it is triggered. A magic mouth counts as one of your bound spells.
Obliterate. You can erase a book or scroll with a touch. Spellbound objects require you to make a Magic roll against the Doom.
Sage History (M). You can determine which stars are right for a person. Once per season, a person can present two lifepaths to you, and you can direct her down the more fruitful path. In game terms, when a character has a choice of how to spend history or skill points, you can advise him. If he follows your advice, he gains a bonus history point, which must be spent in the same history as the first.
High spells.
Capture History. Your mind captures the history of your target. You must touch your victim's temples, jaw, or eyelids throughout the one-hour casting of this spell. At the conclusion, if your Magic roll beats your target's Magic roll, you have captured one history of your choice possessed by your target. The target's history is cut in half while you have it, and can use it, at its full value. You keep it for one scene (or day). The first captured history is erased if you capture a second history.
Disjunction. You separate the spellbound from their spells. Any spellbound person who attempts to cast a spell must make a Magic roll against the Doom first. If it fails, she is unable to cast; if it succeeds, she can cast normally. In combat, this extra Magic roll does not require a separate action, however, if a witch fails to beat the Doom with this Magic roll, she must recast. This spell persists for one scene (or day).
Mass Abjuration. As abjuration (p. 240), but this spell affects every spellbound item and persistent spell in the region. High spells are unaffected.
Occult Doom. In one area (small-scale area, not a large-scale region) you raise or lower the Doom by 2 with respect to Magic. This counts as your bound high spell. The spell persists until you cast it in another location or dismiss it.
Seek Spellbound. Name a spellbound person and describe her well enough to identify her uniquely while casting this spell, which requires a mirror, pool, or other gazing surface. You know the direction and approximate distance to the spellbound witch you are hunting. Each noon, roll your Magic die against hers.
If she wins, your spell is blocked for the day and she is aware of your hunting. The spell persists until you reach your quarry, until you cast it again to seek another, or until the hunted witch leaves the region.
Vatic Annunciation. You prophesy something about the region, and the power of your magic carries it from mouth to mouth, ear to ear, until everyone in the region has heard of your prophesy from a priest, friend, relative, or lord. Your prophecy carries such fear of magic and fate that anyone in the region who is not working toward making your prophecy come true (perhaps simply by believing in it, if there is no direct action reasonably available), has his maximum Mood reduced by three if he does not succeed at a Heart roll against the Doom. This roll must be re-made each week. The prophecy counts as your bound high spell, and it cannot be unbound by you until it either comes to pass or fails. If you are known as the prophet of a failed prophecy, you may gain negative Reputation, at the GM's option. Spellbound creatures are immune to this spell; they have long since learned to live with the terrible entropy of magic.
Void. After a night of casting with at least two acolytes, you drop a hole out of the magic in an area.
One type of Inspiration - your choice - is now unusable in the region. Void persists indefinitely; it counts as your bound high spell. Any wild surge caused by casting this spell results in a crisis surge.

Weremagic
Close Spells.
Alter Appearance. A werewizard can warp his own flesh routinely, altering his appearance. The superficial changes can include hair color and length, eye color, maxillofacial bone structure, height, and weight.
Not all of these features can be changed at once. There is always some vestige of the werewizard's original appearance. The spell grants the caster's Magic die as a bonus die to any attempt to avoid the disguise's detection. This is not an illusion; the physical form of the caster actually shifts. Race cannot change.
Catch Scent. Useful once per trail, this incantation allows you to roll your Magic die as a bonus die when tracking something by scent.
Frighten. Mundane animals are frightened off by werecreatures. Inconsequential animals scatter, perhaps supplying you with a social bonus die equal to your Magic die, if you exploit the staging well. Threatening animals roll their Heart against your Magic; if their heart fails, they flee.
Inconstant Moon (M). This lunacy inflicts upon the target a lack of constancy. The target cannot concentrate and cannot complete any task that requires more than a minute's worth of attention. Smithing a sword, commanding a battle, reading a long letter; all impossible. The first successful resistance roll breaks the spell, which otherwise persists indefinitely (though it counts as one of your bound spells). A resistance roll can be attempted once per day. A person cannot suffer from this spell more than once per lunar cycle (month).
Leap. When leaping, you have an effective Strength of 8 (10 for werelords, that is, masters of the weremagic style). If you roll a 1 on your leap, however, this causes a magic surge just as if you had rolled a 1 on your Magic roll.
Purge Flesh. While grisly, this is an effective disease cure, and it sells well on the black market.
The recipient must already have contracted a disease.
When this spell is cast, his flesh changes. He gains your Magic die on all subsequent rolls to resist the disease.
However, he also gains a distintive, beastly scar or feature such as excessive hirsutism, cat-like eyes, or a dewclaw. This feature acts as a maiming, scar or crippling wound (p. 30).
Shifting Psyche. For a moment, the target forgets his own history. He takes a Reason penalty die on his next skill use, provided it is within the hour.
Your spell is negated, and cannot be used on this target again this scene, if the target resists your Magic roll with a Reason roll of his own.
Sniff silver. With a quick olfactory enchantment, you can sniff out any silver in the area.
High Spells.
Curse shape. To curse someone this way, you must have a piece of their body (hair, fingernail, pound of flesh, etc.) and a figurine of the cursed shape. After the spell is cast, which requires three consecutive tricks if in combat, the target rolls a Magic roll against your Magic roll to resist. If he fails, he is forced into a new shape. He retains his mind: Reason, Heart, Magic, and Charisma scores, Inspirations, Mood, plus histories and skills (although he may not be able to use them in his new form). His other attributes are those of the new form: Strength, Quickness, and Body.
The shape of the cursed target depends on the caster's wereshape, although substitutions are possible if the group and GM see fit.
The victim gains a new Magic roll to break the spell, opposed by your Magic roll, each fortnight for one season. During this time, the spell counts as your bound high spell. After this, the curse becomes permanent and does not count as a bound high spell.
There is, however, always a condition that breaks the curse, set by the caster at the time of casting: a kiss from a princess, the true love of a troll, the throne falls and shatters, etc. Note that because the cursed victim retains his Inspirations, killing him may be difficult, even in the cursed animal shape.
Horde. You summon a pack of wolves, horde of rats, or swarm of spiders and command them. This takes six minutes; the vermin follow and obey you for one hour or until destroyed. You can also issue commands to any members of the species that you did not summon with a Magic vs. Doom roll. Commanding creatures in this way takes a Trick in combat.
Moonbane. You can suspend the moon's progression through its phases. It stays at the phase you stop it for one month. The moonbane affects the entire region.
New Moon: Characters with primarily shadow levels (a shadow class is their highest class level) gain a single extra use of one Inspiration in a scene, as long as the extra use of the Inspiration is used to trick, deceive, charm, sneak, or something similar. Shadow organizations (those with Shadow as their highest characteristic) increase their Shadow scores by 2.
Crescent Moon: The Doom is increased by one for people who are not spellbound.
Gibbous Moon: The Doom is lowered by one for spellbound characters.
Full Moon: Characters with primarily magic levels (a magic class is their highest class level) gain a single extra use of one Inspiration in a scene, as long as the extra use of the Inspiration is used when casting a spell. Magic organizations (those with Arcana as their highest characteristic) increase their Arcana scores by 2.
Lunacy. The target is afflicted with one of the following manias, determined randomly, unless his Magic roll beats yours.
1 - Dipsomania. The character loses one Mood point every hour he is not drunk, progressing into Inspiration damage.
Drunkenness reduces all characteristics save Strength and Quickness by 2 and forces a Reason penalty die with every roll.
2 - Kleptomaia - The character must steal.
He makes a Reason roll against the Doom to avoid stealing something in every scene.
3 - Homicidal mania - The character becomes catatonic for 1d12 hours if he has not killed in the last scene (or day).
4 - Megalomania - The character believes he is King and becomes enraged (1 Mood point loss) every time someone transgresses this belief.
5 - Paranoia - The character is convinced someone is out to get him. He suffers a Reason penalty die on every roll in the first round and last rounds of every encounter as he looks over his shoulder.
6 - Idiot Savant - The character's Reason is reduced to 2 in all but one field, where his Reason is 12. Typical fields include music, memorization, arithmetic, and detailed knowledge of crisis surges.
7 - Borrowed personality - The character believes he is another PC or NPC and behaves accordingly.
8 - Schematic monomania - The character is obsessed with accomplishing an involved scheme. Every hour that the character does not work on his scheme, he loses 1 Mood point, progressing into Inspiration damage.
Once affected, the victim rolls a Magic roll against your Magic roll once each day until he throws off the madness.
Obsession. You must cast this during the midnight hour of a full or new moon. The target need not be present, but he must be within the region. The target of this spell fixates on one of his Inspirations, determined randomly, to the exclusion of all others.
Over time, he puts all of his possible points into that one Inspiration, and he spends as much time as possible pursuing it. The target gains a Reason roll against your Magic roll each time the moon changes phases; success breaks the spell. This spell counts as your trapped high spell.
Rave Night. A full moon or a new moon must be in the sky when this spell is cast. For one night, everyone in the region goes mad. Individuals can make an initial Magic roll against the Doom to stave off madness; otherwise, they succumb. Those who go mad are wild and shameless, seeking to sate the most basic drives: hunger, lust, anger, greed. An armed legion trying to restore order to the streets must fight off waves of angry mobs (p. 161). All organizations in the region must roll Efficiency against your Magic roll or suffer a 1 point loss to all characteristics for the next week. An individual out in public on a Rave Night can expect to encounter 1d4 lunatic revelers per area, in most cases a brawl results without a successful Charisma check against the Doom.
Wereshape. Choose one wereshape: wolf, bear, tiger, descent cat, raptor, rat. Once chosen, you can never change your wereshape. When you cast this spell, over the course of half a minute, you transform into one of these were-beasts (counts as five consecutive Tricks in combat). Your Reason, Heart, Magic, Charisma, Mood, Inspirations, and Histories remain your own, but you gain the Strength, Quickness, Body, Armor and Weapon Quality, shape, and fighting styles of the were-beast, with two exceptions. First, no characteristic can be raised higher than your number of magic levels. For example, if you are a wizard 6/ assassin 6 and you shapechange into a werebear, your Strength and Body are 6 rather than the 10 and 9 normally listed for a were-bear. Second, you gain fighting styles only at the apprentice level, even if the werebeast normally has mastered the fighting style. You may also gain other special abilities; these are noted in the were-beast's description. Unless noted, you do not gain other were-beast abilities, such as being proof against all but silver weapons.
You can remain in wereshape for up to one day per magic level per lunar cycle, retaking your original shape over the course of another half a minute.
For example, if you are a wizard/chosen one 5/3, and your chosen one levels are magic levels, then you can remain in your wereshape for 8 days per month.
Carried items, including clothing, do not change form with you. Wounds do. That is, if you have suffered 4 points of Body damage in your human form, and then you shift into your wereform, you will still have 4 points of Body damage.
Casting close spells is possible but difficult in wereshape; you must roll your Magic score against the Doom to have a chance at success. Casting spells in combat and casting high spells at any time while in wereshape is impossible.
